//This file is a collection of random tidbits that you think up and would like to jot down, please only add things to the end of the file

Does faith matter?

Faith is something andy doesn't believe in. To have faith in a video game turns two consequences into four reactions. Faith is the illogical belief in something - an idea turned into... fuel.

From the perspective of a God, faith is existance, from the perspective of a human, faith is extravagance.

The player will be putting their faith in a macguffin. (possibly literally a chekov's gun). Everyone has a macguffin - "this thing will save me!". Peoples will have different levels of faith in their macguffin.

City in a state of disrepair - slowly declining over millenia. Ancient magitech. Poor citizens abound, urchins wander the streets.

Stealth mechanics - MGS on the game boy. Tomb raider-ish. 

Quests - get item X for person Y, or go to place Y to do X.

For retrival quests, choices can involve sneaky retrieval or conversational retreival - basically choices on how to retrieve macguffin.

The player's choices do not matter unless they forcibly change the game.

Loss of choice is a consequence of failure - as in the more the players fail, the less choices they'll be able to make.

Ancient evil sit underneath the city!

- force the player to interact with game files and play god
- game will be impossible unless some file changes are made
- detect changes in the files, and react to player
	- anger? amusement?


- matrix references!

- Branching dialogue

Gameplay - 
. Point and click adventure - similar to shadowrun
. few combat scenarios - turn based 
. 

World - 
. magitech, lots of fancy-ass crystals and shit
. turn based combat
. no walking simulator
. mouse based movement?
. composed of sets in an overworld (inns, shops, forums, etc. on a large map)
. point and click - without difficult puzzles
. exposition
. possiblly VO heavy
. 

. "The Truth", where a text console is presented to the player, with which the player can edit game files
. simple scripting language - Kivy script/lua?

A city called Maya, with a host of troubles - famine, disease, a lack of good looking hats
The protagonist is someone who can make choices that affect multitudes