
**Player: the player

**Factions - the different social groups within the city of Maya

The Historians - Those who believe in the past, and the power residing withing their MacGuffins. More inclined to believe in the supernatural.

The Exodii  - Those having left the city behind to find a future elsewhere.

The Librarians - The caretakers of new tech - sciency/engineery types.

**Houses (better name eventually)
Amaui - the waterbearers, they began as a collective of diviners and tappers focused on finding water for the fledginly city of Maya. The dream became a reality as the technicians and sorcerers build devices to siphon water from the rocks below the city. The aquaducts followed shortly and the city became the draw of many travellers and traders as a watering hole able to refuel the grandest of caravans.

Ysha - every city has an underworld. The dealings of the grey and black markets flow as smooth as the black blood of the old gods through the gutters and alleyways in the rundowns below the wealth. Ysha ensures no clots form and the vices of the city remain separate from its virtues. In the  backspaces of the city, the house operates its work. Making sure the theives, pimps, and assassins all get their dues while keeping their tracks and collateral away from the upright citizens' businesses. They have evolved into a collection of legitimate transports for hire following Maya's decline.

M'qo - Judicators have always been an element in societies, no matter how liberated. House M'qo was founded on the morning after the End of the Fires - a week of civil war within the borders of Maya between the residents and transients. The resultant peace saw the bazaar move underground, and the formation of the M'qo house as the ultimate authority in civil disputes. The house used to hold a number of courts, a veritable army of militia and volunteers, and a stranglehold on the weapons market in Maya. But that was during the heydays, now they are essentially a loosely affiliated, but well organised group of guardsmen keeping the dustbowl from rioting.

Caana - Formerly the Merchant's Guild. Now a coalition of servicepeople dedicated to keep the city in what resembles working condition. They were formed through a pact between the larger caravans that traversed the desert in the days past - to ensure no one trading faction grew to control the 'Gem of the T'Kun'. After the fall of the empire surrounding the city, the traders were blown towards greener pastures and left their contacts in Maya to fend for themselves.

**The city of Maya - where every family has a MacGuffin which is a piece of technology from an era long past. They don't actually do anything supernatural in game (they may or may not be truly magical), and many attribute beliefs in them - in their power, their sentience, or some other supposed attribute of their family MacGuffin. 

City is divided into layers, progressing underground into a vast bazaar of ancient memories and strange new inventions.

The top side (the Stage) is a sprawling metropolis of poverty and neglect. The only building kept in good repairs is the entrance to the lower levels, it also serves as the forum for the leadership council. 

The first level down is a marketplace, with hawkers and merchants and wares from above, below, and beyond the boarders of Maya. In the past, stalls would line the streets, along with even smaller shops selling their wares from woven rugs or reed mats. Theft is common, yet law is applied swiftly and harshly to those caught. The Markets now are a tight collection of shops selling the most essential goods, situated in the center of the city and passed down from generations ago. The edges of the Marketplace is now a set of ruins that have been plundered quite thoroughly by opportunistic scavengers. The Joint is a collection of small stalls and shops representing the edge of law enforcement patrols. 


The Second level is separated into rough quarters, each belonging to a major house - house Amaui, house Ysha, house M'qo, and house Caana. The houses are a loose collection of craftsmen and artificers working in similar fields. 


The Museum Site of worship for those believing in their MacGuffin?????


Cuisine: Since water is not a scarcity, numerous plants can be grown both underground and aboveground - wheat, citrus, olives, and numerous herbs are farmed consistently. Grazing animals are rarer due to the water and land requirements to herd. Some herders reside permanently aboveground to raise large sized herds of dairy cattle. 


 
